Kubernetes v1.34 Sneak Peek Blog (#51651)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2025-07-28-kubernetes-v1.34-sneak-peek.md

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.34 Sneak Peek'
date: 2025-07-28
slug: kubernetes-v1-34-sneak-peek

> author: >
>   Agustina Barbetta,
>   Alejandro Josue Leon Bellido,
>   Graziano Casto,
>   Melony Qin,
>   Dipesh Rawat

Reviewer: (nit) We could keep this sorted _(e.g., alphabetically)_ for a cleaner look.

```suggestion
author: >
  Agustina Barbetta,
  Alejandro Josue Leon Bellido,
  Dipesh Rawat,
  Graziano Casto,
  Melony Qin
```

Author: It's currently ordered by last name ascending per the Comms handbook template, but I'll leave this open for more feedback

Reviewer 2: No need to change it

That support already exists as alpha, and is tracked as part of [KEP-4412](https://kep.k8s.io/4412).

The existing alpha integration allows the `kubelet` to use short-lived, automatically rotated ServiceAccount tokens (that follow OIDC-compliant semantics) to authenticate to a container image registry. Each token is scoped to one associated Pod; the overall mechanism replaces the need for long-lived image pull Secrets.

Adopting this new approach reduces security risks, supports workload-level identity, and helps to cut operational overhead. It brings image pull authentication closer to modern, identity-aware good practice.

### Pod replacement policy for Deployments

After a change to a [Deployment](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/), terminating pods may stay up for a considerable amount of time and may consume additional resources. As part of [KEP-3973](https://kep.k8s.io/3973), the `.spec.podReplacementPolicy` field is introduced in Deployments.

Two policies are available:

> * `TerminationStarted`: Creates new pods as soon as old ones start terminating, resulting in faster rollouts and temporary higher resource consumption.  
> * `TerminationComplete`: Waits until old pods fully terminate before creating new ones, resulting in slower rollouts and a more controlled resource consumption.

Reviewer: Refactor the list as definition list.

```suggestion
`TerminationStarted`
: Creates new pods as soon as old ones start terminating, resulting in faster rollouts and temporary higher resource consumption.

`TerminationComplete`
: Waits until old pods fully terminate before creating new ones, resulting in slower rollouts and a more controlled resource consumption.
```

> This feature provides greater control and makes deployment behavior more predictable, especially when working in clusters with tight resource constraints or with workloads with long termination periods. 
> 
> It’s introduced in alpha behind the `DeploymentPodReplacementPolicy` and `DeploymentReplicaSetTerminatingReplicas` feature gates in the API server and the kube-controller-manager.

Reviewer: Tried rewording this section - open to feedback.

```suggestion
This feature makes Deployment behavior more predictable by letting you choose when new pods should be created during updates or scaling. You can decide to create them right away for faster rollouts, or wait until old pods fully shut down to avoid using too many resources at once.

It’s expected to be available as an alpha feature and can be enabled using the `DeploymentPodReplacementPolicy` and `DeploymentReplicaSetTerminatingReplicas` feature gates in the API server and kube-controller-manager.
```

Reviewer: Looks good.

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.34 Sneak Peek'
date: 2025-07-28
slug: kubernetes-v1-34-sneak-peek
author: >
  Agustina Barbetta,
  Alejandro Josue Leon Bellido,
  Graziano Casto,
  Melony Qin,
  Dipesh Rawat
---

Kubernetes v1.34 is coming at the end of August 2025. This release will not include any removal or deprecation, but it is packed with an impressive number of enhancements. Here are some of the features we are most excited about in this cycle!  
Please note that this information reflects the current state of v1.34 development and may change before release.

## Featured enhancements of Kubernetes v1.34

The following list of enhancements is likely to be included in the v1.34 release. This is not a commitment and the release content is subject to change.

### The core of DRA targets stable

> Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) provides a flexible way to categorize, request, and use devices like GPUs or custom hardware in your Kubernetes cluster.  

Author: ```suggestion
[Dynamic Resource Allocation](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/) (DRA) provides a flexible way to categorize, request, and use devices like GPUs or custom hardware in your Kubernetes cluster.  
```

Structured parameters ([KEP-4381](https://kep.k8s.io/4381)) is a Kubernetes enhancement introduced in v1.30 that provides the core framework for DRA, and is targeting graduation to stable in v1.34. Taking inspiration from dynamic volume provisioning, it introduces ResourceClaim, DeviceClass, ResourceClaimTemplate, and ResourceSlice API types under resource.k8s.io, while extending PodSpec with a `resourceClaims` field.  
With DRA, device drivers and cluster admins define device classes that are available to request in a cluster. Workloads can claim devices from a device class. Kubernetes allocates matching devices to specific claims and places the corresponding Pods on nodes that can access the allocated devices. This framework provides flexible device filtering using CEL, centralized device categorization, and simplified Pod requests, among other benefits

### ServiceAccount tokens for image pull authentication

> The existing ServiceAccount token integration for `kubelet` credential providers is likely to reach to beta in Kubernetes v1.34, and is likely to be enabled by default. You'll then be able to have the kubelet use these tokens when pulling container images from registries that require authentication.

Author: ```suggestion
The existing [ServiceAccount](/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/) token integration for `kubelet` credential providers is likely to reach to beta in Kubernetes v1.34, and is likely to be enabled by default. You'll then be able to have the kubelet use these tokens when pulling container images from registries that require authentication.
```

That support already exists as alpha, and is tracked as part of [KEP-4412](https://kep.k8s.io/4412).

The existing alpha integration allows the `kubelet` to use short-lived, automatically rotated ServiceAccount tokens (that follow OIDC-compliant semantics) to authenticate to a container registry image pulls. Each token is scoped to one associated Pod; the overall mechanism replaces the need for long-lived image pull Secrets.

Adopting this new approach reduces security risks, supports workload-level identity, and helps to cut operational overhead. It brings image pull authentication closer to modern, identity-aware good practice.

### Pod replacement policy for Deployments

> After a change to a Deployment, terminating pods may stay up for a considerable amount of time and may consume additional resources. As part of [KEP-3973](https://kep.k8s.io/3973), the `.spec.podReplacementPolicy` field is introduced in Deployments.

Author: ```suggestion
After a change to a [Deployment](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/), terminating pods may stay up for a considerable amount of time and may consume additional resources. As part of [KEP-3973](https://kep.k8s.io/3973), the `.spec.podReplacementPolicy` field is introduced in Deployments.
```

### `kubelet` observability gets a major boost with production-ready tracing

To address the longstanding challenge of debugging node-level issues by correlating disconnected logs, the Kubelet OpenTelemetry Tracing enhancement ([KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831)) provides deep, contextual insights into the `kubelet`. It instruments the `kubelet`'s critical control loops and interfaces, most notably the gRPC calls made via the Container Runtime Interface (CRI). By generating and exporting distributed trace data using the vendor-agnostic OpenTelemetry standard, it fundamentally transforms node-level diagnostics from parsing disparate log files to analyzing a single, cohesive trace. This allows operators to visualize the entire lifecycle of critical operations like Pod startup, precisely pinpointing sources of latency and errors. Its most powerful aspect is the propagation of trace context; the `kubelet` passes a trace ID with its requests to the container runtime, enabling runtimes like containerd or CRI-O to link their own spans.  

> This effort is complemented by a parallel enhancement, [KEP-647](https://kep.k8s.io/647), which brings the same tracing capabilities to the Kubernetes API server. Together, these enhancements provide a more unified, end-to-end view of events, simplifying the process of pinpointing latency and errors from the control plane down to the node. These features have matured through the official Kubernetes release process. [KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831) was introduced as an alpha feature in v1.25, while [KEP-647](https://kep.k8s.io/647) debuted as alpha in v1.22. Both enhancements were promoted to beta together in the v1.27 release. Looking forward, Kubelet Tracing ([KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831)) is now targeting graduation to a stable in the upcoming v1.34 release.

Author: Addressed last sentence here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/51651/files#r2229236003

This feature was introduced in v1.33 behind the `PreferSameTrafficDistribution` feature gate. It is targeting graduation to beta in v1.34 with its feature gate enabled by default.

### `kubectl` supports KYAML as an output format

[KEP-5295](https://kep.k8s.io/5295) introduces KYAML, a safer and less ambiguous YAML subset and encoding, designed specifically for Kubernetes. KYAML addresses the shortcomings of both YAML and JSON. YAML's significant whitespace requires careful attention to indentation and nesting, while its optional string-quoting can lead to unexpected type coercion. Meanwhile, JSON lacks comment support and has strict requirements for trailing commas and quoted keys.  
KYAML addresses the problems by:

* Always double-quoting value strings   
* Leaving keys unquoted unless they are potentially ambiguous  
* Always using {} for structs and maps  
* Always using [] for lists

This might sound a lot like JSON, because it is! But unlike JSON, KYAML:

* Supports comments  
* Allows trailing commas in lists and maps for improved usability.  
* Does not require quoted keys.

> In Kubernetes v1.34, KYAML will be introduced as a new output format for `kubectl` (as in `kubectl get -o kyaml ...`). KYAML is and will remain a strict subset of YAML, ensuring that any compliant YAML parser can parse KYAML documents.

Author: Suggestion committed in https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/51651/files#r2228771874

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.34 Sneak Peek'
date: 2025-07-28
slug: kubernetes-v1-34-sneak-peek
author: >
  Agustina Barbetta,
  Alejandro Josue Leon Bellido,
  Graziano Casto,
  Melony Qin,
  Dipesh Rawat
---

Kubernetes v1.34 is coming at the end of August 2025. This release will not include any removal or deprecation, but it is packed with an impressive number of enhancements. Here are some of the features we are most excited about in this cycle!  

Please note that this information reflects the current state of v1.34 development and may change before release.

## Featured enhancements of Kubernetes v1.34

The following list highlights some of the notable enhancements likely to be included in the v1.34 release, but is not an exhaustive list of all planned changes. This is not a commitment and the release content is subject to change.

### The core of DRA targets stable

[Dynamic Resource Allocation](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/) (DRA) provides a flexible way to categorize, request, and use devices like GPUs or custom hardware in your Kubernetes cluster.  

> Structured parameters ([KEP-4381](https://kep.k8s.io/4381)) is a Kubernetes enhancement introduced in v1.30 that provides the core framework for DRA, and is targeting graduation to stable in v1.34. Taking inspiration from dynamic volume provisioning, it introduces ResourceClaim, DeviceClass, ResourceClaimTemplate, and ResourceSlice API types under resource.k8s.io, while extending PodSpec with a `resourceClaims` field.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the v1.30 release, DRA is based around RC concept of claiming devices using _structured parameters_ that are opaque to the core of Kubernetes.
The relevant enhancement proposal, ([KEP-4381](https://kep.k8s.io/4381)), took inspiration from dynamic provisioning for storage volumes.
DRA with structured parameters relies on a set of supporting APi kinds: ResourceClaim, DeviceClass, ResourceClaimTemplate, and ResourceSlice API types under `resource.k8s.io`, while extending the `.spec` for Pods with a new `resourceClaims` field.
The core of DRA is targeting graduation to stable in Kubernetes v1.34.

```

With DRA, device drivers and cluster admins define device classes that are available for use. Workloads can claim devices from a device class within device requests. Kubernetes allocates matching devices to specific claims and places the corresponding Pods on nodes that can access the allocated devices. This framework provides flexible device filtering using CEL, centralized device categorization, and simplified Pod requests, among other benefits.

> Once this feature has graduated, the resource.k8s.io/v1 API will be enabled by default.

Reviewer 2: (nit)
```suggestion
Once this feature has graduated, the `resource.k8s.io/v1` APIs will be available by default.
```
Enabled us also true, BTW. Key thing is the plural.

### ServiceAccount tokens for image pull authentication

The existing [ServiceAccount](/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/) token integration for `kubelet` credential providers is likely to reach beta in Kubernetes v1.34, and is likely to be enabled by default. You'll then be able to have the `kubelet` use these tokens when pulling container images from registries that require authentication.

That support already exists as alpha, and is tracked as part of [KEP-4412](https://kep.k8s.io/4412).

The existing alpha integration allows the `kubelet` to use short-lived, automatically rotated ServiceAccount tokens (that follow OIDC-compliant semantics) to authenticate to a container image registry. Each token is scoped to one associated Pod; the overall mechanism replaces the need for long-lived image pull Secrets.

Adopting this new approach reduces security risks, supports workload-level identity, and helps to cut operational overhead. It brings image pull authentication closer to modern, identity-aware good practice.

### Pod replacement policy for Deployments

> After a change to a [Deployment](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/), terminating pods may stay up for a considerable amount of time and may consume additional resources. As part of [KEP-3973](https://kep.k8s.io/3973), the `.spec.podReplacementPolicy` field is introduced in Deployments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After a change to a [Deployment](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/), terminating pods may stay up for a considerable amount of time and may consume additional resources.
As part of [KEP-3973](https://kep.k8s.io/3973), the `.spec.podReplacementPolicy` field will be introduced (as alpha) for Deployments.
```

> Two policies are available:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your cluster has the feature enabled, you'll be able to select one of two policies:
```

### `PreferSameZone` and `PreferSameNode` traffic distribution for Services

The `spec.trafficDistribution` field within a Kubernetes [Service](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) allows users to express preferences for how traffic should be routed to Service endpoints.  

[KEP-3015](https://kep.k8s.io/3015) deprecates `PreferClose` and introduces two additional values: `PreferSameZone` and `PreferSameNode`. `PreferSameZone` is equivalent to the current `PreferClose`. `PreferSameNode` prioritizes sending traffic to endpoints on the same node as the client.  

This feature was introduced in v1.33 behind the `PreferSameTrafficDistribution` feature gate. It is targeting graduation to beta in v1.34 with its feature gate enabled by default.

### Support for KYAML: a Kubernetes dialect of YAML

> KYAML is a safer and less ambiguous YAML subset designed specifically for Kubernetes. You can use KYAML for writing manifests and Helm charts, and request KYAML output from `kubectl` (as in `kubectl get -o kyaml ...`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
KYAML aims to be a safer and less ambiguous YAML subset, and was designed specifically
for Kubernetes. Whatever version of Kubernetes you use, you'll be able use KYAML for writing manifests
and/or Helm charts.
You can write KYAML and pass it as an input to **any** version of `kubectl`,
because all KYAML files are also valid as YAML.
With kubectl v1.34, we expect you'll also be able to request KYAML output from `kubectl` (as in `kubectl get -o kyaml …`).
Of course, you can still request JSON or YAML output if you prefer that.
```

?

KYAML addresses specific challenges with both YAML and JSON. YAML's significant whitespace requires careful attention to indentation and nesting, while its optional string-quoting can lead to unexpected type coercion (for example: ["The Norway Bug"](https://hitchdev.com/strictyaml/why/implicit-typing-removed/)). Meanwhile, JSON lacks comment support and has strict requirements for trailing commas and quoted keys.  

[KEP-5295](https://kep.k8s.io/5295) introduces KYAML, which tries to address the most significant problems by:

* Always double-quoting value strings

* Leaving keys unquoted unless they are potentially ambiguous

> * Always using {} for structs and maps
> 
> * Always using [] for lists

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Always using `{`}` for mappings (associative arrays)

* Always using `[]` for lists
```

This might sound a lot like JSON, because it is! But unlike JSON, KYAML supports comments, allows trailing commas, and doesn't require quoted keys.

We're hoping to see KYAML introduced as a new output format for `kubectl` v1.34.
As with all these features, none of these changes are 100% confirmed; watch this space!

> As a format, KYAML is and will remain a **strict subset of YAML**, ensuring that any compliant YAML parser can parse KYAML documents.

Reviewer 2: @thockin, WDYT to:
```suggestion
As a format, KYAML is and will remain a **strict subset of YAML**, ensuring that any compliant YAML parser can parse KYAML documents. Kubernetes does not insist you provide input that is specifically formatted as KYAML, and we have no plan to change that.
```

Reviewer 3: I have no strong feelings on the exact words - I think both convey the point.  The latter is perhaps clearer at the cost of another sentence.  IMO it is nice, but if you need to edit for length it can be cut

Reviewer 2: (thanks)

### Fine-grained autoscaling control with HPA configurable tolerance

[KEP-4951](https://kep.k8s.io/4951) introduces a new feature that allows users to configure autoscaling tolerance on a per-HPA basis, overriding the default cluster-wide 10% tolerance setting that often proves too coarse-grained for diverse workloads. The enhancement adds an optional `tolerance` field to the HPA's `spec.behavior.scaleUp` and `spec.behavior.scaleDown` sections, enabling different tolerance values for scale-up and scale-down operations, which is particularly valuable since scale-up responsiveness is typically more critical than scale-down speed for handling traffic surges.  

> Released as alpha in Kubernetes v1.33 behind the `HPAConfigurableTolerance` feature gate, this feature is graduating to beta in v1.34. This enhancement addresses scaling challenges where large deployments might require hundreds of pods for a 10% change, enabling workload-specific optimization for both responsive and conservative scaling behaviors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Released as alpha in Kubernetes v1.33 behind the `HPAConfigurableTolerance` feature gate, this feature is expected to graduate to beta in v1.34.
This improvement helps to address scaling challenges with large deployments, where for scaling in,
a 10% tolerance might mean leaving hundreds of unnecessary Pods running.
Using the new more flexible approach would enable workload-specific optimization for both
responsive and conservative scaling behaviors.
```

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.34 Sneak Peek'
date: 2025-07-28
slug: kubernetes-v1-34-sneak-peek
author: >
  Agustina Barbetta,
  Alejandro Josue Leon Bellido,
  Graziano Casto,
  Melony Qin,
  Dipesh Rawat
---

Kubernetes v1.34 is coming at the end of August 2025. This release will not include any removal or deprecation, but it is packed with an impressive number of enhancements. Here are some of the features we are most excited about in this cycle!  

Please note that this information reflects the current state of v1.34 development and may change before release.

## Featured enhancements of Kubernetes v1.34

The following list highlights some of the notable enhancements likely to be included in the v1.34 release, but is not an exhaustive list of all planned changes. This is not a commitment and the release content is subject to change.

### The core of DRA targets stable

[Dynamic Resource Allocation](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/) (DRA) provides a flexible way to categorize, request, and use devices like GPUs or custom hardware in your Kubernetes cluster.  

> Since the v1.30 release, DRA is based around RC concept of claiming devices using _structured parameters_ that are opaque to the core of Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: I think "RC" should be "a"; if it's an abbreviation for RC, many people won't know what it is short for.

Author: I don't understand, do you mean this?
```suggestion
Since the v1.30 release, DRA is based around a concept of claiming devices using _structured parameters_ that are opaque to the core of Kubernetes.
```

The relevant enhancement proposal, [KEP-4381](https://kep.k8s.io/4381), took inspiration from dynamic provisioning for storage volumes.
DRA with structured parameters relies on a set of supporting API kinds: ResourceClaim, DeviceClass, ResourceClaimTemplate, and ResourceSlice API types under `resource.k8s.io`, while extending the `.spec` for Pods with a new `resourceClaims` field.
The core of DRA is targeting graduation to stable in Kubernetes v1.34.

With DRA, device drivers and cluster admins define device classes that are available for use. Workloads can claim devices from a device class within device requests. Kubernetes allocates matching devices to specific claims and places the corresponding Pods on nodes that can access the allocated devices. This framework provides flexible device filtering using CEL, centralized device categorization, and simplified Pod requests, among other benefits.

Once this feature has graduated, the `resource.k8s.io/v1` APIs will be available by default.

### ServiceAccount tokens for image pull authentication

> The existing [ServiceAccount](/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/) token integration for `kubelet` credential providers is likely to reach beta in Kubernetes v1.34, and is likely to be enabled by default. You'll then be able to have the `kubelet` use these tokens when pulling container images from registries that require authentication.

Author: I’ll push this slightly different version, just because I’m not sure the graduation is to enable the feature by default only
```suggestion
The [ServiceAccount](/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/) token integration for `kubelet` credential providers is likely to reach beta and be enabled by default in Kubernetes v1.34. You'll then be able to have the `kubelet` use these tokens when pulling container images from registries that require authentication.
```

That support already exists as alpha, and is tracked as part of [KEP-4412](https://kep.k8s.io/4412).

The existing alpha integration allows the `kubelet` to use short-lived, automatically rotated ServiceAccount tokens (that follow OIDC-compliant semantics) to authenticate to a container image registry. Each token is scoped to one associated Pod; the overall mechanism replaces the need for long-lived image pull Secrets.

Adopting this new approach reduces security risks, supports workload-level identity, and helps to cut operational overhead. It brings image pull authentication closer to modern, identity-aware good practice.

### Pod replacement policy for Deployments

After a change to a [Deployment](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/), terminating pods may stay up for a considerable amount of time and may consume additional resources.
As part of [KEP-3973](https://kep.k8s.io/3973), the `.spec.podReplacementPolicy` field will be introduced (as alpha) for Deployments.

If your cluster has the feature enabled, you'll be able to select one of two policies:

`TerminationStarted`

> : Creates new pods as soon as old ones start terminating, resulting in faster rollouts and temporary higher resource consumption.

Reviewer 4: I suggest higher resource consumption could be highlighted as drawback for this approach

```suggestion
: Creates new pods as soon as old ones start terminating, speeding up rollouts but potentially increasing resource usage.
```

Or

```suggestion
: Creates new pods as soon as old ones start terminating, resulting in faster rollouts at the cost of potentially higher resource consumption.
```

`TerminationComplete`

> : Waits until old pods fully terminate before creating new ones, resulting in slower rollouts and a more controlled resource consumption.

Reviewer 4: If we were to reword the above for `TerminationStarted`, it would be good to keep this one consistent as well.

```suggestion
: Waits until old pods fully terminate before creating new ones, slowing down rollouts but ensuring controlled resource consumption.
```

Or
```suggestion
: Waits until old pods fully terminate before creating new ones, resulting in slower rollouts but ensuring controlled resource consumption.
```

As a format, KYAML is and will remain a **strict subset of YAML**, ensuring that any compliant YAML parser can parse KYAML documents.

### Fine-grained autoscaling control with HPA configurable tolerance

[KEP-4951](https://kep.k8s.io/4951) introduces a new feature that allows users to configure autoscaling tolerance on a per-HPA basis, overriding the default cluster-wide 10% tolerance setting that often proves too coarse-grained for diverse workloads. The enhancement adds an optional `tolerance` field to the HPA's `spec.behavior.scaleUp` and `spec.behavior.scaleDown` sections, enabling different tolerance values for scale-up and scale-down operations, which is particularly valuable since scale-up responsiveness is typically more critical than scale-down speed for handling traffic surges.  

Released as alpha in Kubernetes v1.33 behind the `HPAConfigurableTolerance` feature gate, this feature is expected to graduate to beta in v1.34.
This improvement helps to address scaling challenges with large deployments, where for scaling in,
a 10% tolerance might mean leaving hundreds of unnecessary Pods running.

> Using the new more flexible approach would enable workload-specific optimization for both

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Using the new, more flexible approach would enable workload-specific optimization for both
```

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.34: Sneak peek'
date: 2025-07-28
slug: kubernetes-v1-34-sneak-peek
author: >
  Agustina Barbetta,
  Alejandro Josue Leon Bellido,
  Graziano Casto,
  Melony Qin,
  Dipesh Rawat
---

Kubernetes v1.34 is coming at the end of August 2025. This release will not include any removal or deprecation, but it is packed with an impressive number of enhancements. Here are some of the features we are most excited about in this cycle!  
Please note that this information reflects the current state of v1.34 development and may change before release.

## Featured enhancements of Kubernetes v1.34

> The following list of enhancements is likely to be included in the v1.34 release. This is not a commitment and the release content is subject to change.

Reviewer 5: Just a personal preference as a reader, I loved the structure of [v1.33 sneak peek](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/03/26/kubernetes-v1-33-upcoming-changes/#featured-improvement-of-kubernetes-v1-33). It separated 2 sections:
- "Featured improvement" part: the authors picked only one improvement as the most significant change to call out.
- "Selected other improvements": the rest of the list of enhancements.

### The core of DRA gets closer to production-ready

Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) provides a flexible way to categorize, request, and use devices like GPUs or custom hardware in your Kubernetes cluster.  

> Structured parameters ([KEP-4381](https://kep.k8s.io/4381)) is a Kubernetes enhancement introduced in v1.31 that provides the core framework for DRA, and is targeting graduation to stable in v1.34. Taking inspiration from dynamic volume provisioning, it introduces ResourceClaim, DeviceClass, ResourceClaimTemplate, and ResourceSlice API types under resource.k8s.io, while extending PodSpec with a `resourceClaims` field.  

Reviewer 5: Structured parameters was first introduced in v1.30, not v1.31, isn't it? https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4381

Author: IIRC v1.31 blogs announced it for the first time, initially I thought it had missed the v1.30 code freeze, but after checking again it looks like the first alpha was in v1.30. I’ll apply the following change:
```suggestion
Structured parameters ([KEP-4381](https://kep.k8s.io/4381)) is a Kubernetes enhancement introduced in v1.30 that provides the core framework for DRA, and is targeting graduation to stable in v1.34. Taking inspiration from dynamic volume provisioning, it introduces ResourceClaim, DeviceClass, ResourceClaimTemplate, and ResourceSlice API types under resource.k8s.io, while extending PodSpec with a `resourceClaims` field.  
```

> With DRA, device drivers and cluster admins define device classes that are available to request in a cluster. Workloads can claim devices from a device class. Kubernetes allocates matching devices to specific claims and places the corresponding Pods on nodes that can access the allocated devices. This framework provides flexible device filtering using CEL, centralized device categorization, and simplified Pod requests, among other benefits

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
With DRA, device drivers and cluster admins define device classes that are available to request in a cluster. Workloads can claim devices from a device class. Kubernetes allocates matching devices to specific claims and places the corresponding Pods on nodes that can access the allocated devices. This framework provides flexible device filtering using CEL, centralized device categorization, and simplified Pod requests, among other benefits.
```

Reviewer 7: "that are available to request" could be misunderstood as "users are requesting classes", while they merely use the classed to request devices. Replace with "are available for use in device requests in a cluster"?

BTW, the doc guidelines suggest to wrap long lines. That makes it easier to comment on specific parts in long paragraphs like this one.

Author: Thank you @Serenity611 @pohly, I'm applying the following, let me know if you have more comments:
```suggestion
With DRA, device drivers and cluster admins define device classes that are available for use. Workloads can claim devices from a device class within device requests. Kubernetes allocates matching devices to specific claims and places the corresponding Pods on nodes that can access the allocated devices. This framework provides flexible device filtering using CEL, centralized device categorization, and simplified Pod requests, among other benefits.
Once this feature has graduated, the resource.k8s.io/v1 API will be enabled by default.
```

@lmktfy I'm not sure this is the correct styling for APIs, I couldn't find examples of API mentions

### ServiceAccount tokens for image pull authentication

> The existing [ServiceAccount](/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/) token integration for `kubelet` credential providers is likely to reach to beta in Kubernetes v1.34, and is likely to be enabled by default. You'll then be able to have the kubelet use these tokens when pulling container images from registries that require authentication.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The existing [ServiceAccount](/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/) token integration for `kubelet` credential providers is likely to reach beta in Kubernetes v1.34, and is likely to be enabled by default. You'll then be able to have the `kubelet` use these tokens when pulling container images from registries that require authentication.
```

> As part of [KEP-4412](https://kep.k8s.io/4412), the Service Account token integration for `kubelet` credential providers is graduating to beta in Kubernetes v1.34. This feature allows the `kubelet` to use short-lived, automatically rotated service account tokens that follow OIDC-compliant semantics to authenticate image pulls. These tokens are scoped to individual pods and replace the need for long-lived image pull secrets. This improves security, supports workload identity, and reduces operational overhead. It brings image pull authentication closer to modern, identity-aware best practices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The existing ServiceAccount token integration for `kubelet` credential providers is likely to reach to beta in Kubernetes v1.34, and is likely to be enabled by default. You'll then be able to have the kubelet use these tokens when pulling container images from registries that require authentication.

That support already exists as alpha, and is tracked as part of [KEP-4412](https://kep.k8s.io/4412).

The existing alpha integration allows the `kubelet` to use short-lived, automatically rotated ServiceAccount tokens (that follow OIDC-compliant semantics) to authenticate to a container registry image pulls. Each token is scoped to one associated Pod; the overall mechanism replaces the need for long-lived image pull Secrets.

Adopting this new approach reduces security risks, supports workload-level identity, and helps to cut operational overhead. It brings image pull authentication closer to modern, identity-aware good practice.
```

Author: @dipesh-rawat let me know your thoughts about this suggestion

Reviewer: @aibarbetta Suggested content looks great overall!

That support already exists as alpha, and is tracked as part of [KEP-4412](https://kep.k8s.io/4412).

> The existing alpha integration allows the `kubelet` to use short-lived, automatically rotated ServiceAccount tokens (that follow OIDC-compliant semantics) to authenticate to a container registry image pulls. Each token is scoped to one associated Pod; the overall mechanism replaces the need for long-lived image pull Secrets.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The existing alpha integration allows the `kubelet` to use short-lived, automatically rotated ServiceAccount tokens (that follow OIDC-compliant semantics) to authenticate to a container image registry. Each token is scoped to one associated Pod; the overall mechanism replaces the need for long-lived image pull Secrets.
```

Two policies are available:

> * `TerminationStarted`: Creates new pods as soon as old ones start terminating, resulting in faster rollouts and temporary higher resource consumption.  

Reviewer 2: (nit) this could be a description list

* `TerminationComplete`: Waits until old pods fully terminate before creating new ones, resulting in slower rollouts, and a more controlled resource consumption.

This feature provides greater control, and makes deployment behavior more predictable, especially when working in clusters with tight resource constraints or with workloads with long termination periods. 

> It’s introduced in alpha behind the `DeploymentPodReplacementPolicy` and `DeploymentReplicaSetTerminatingReplicas` feature gates in the API server and the kube-controller-manager.

Author: @dipesh-rawat can you suggest a change here?

> It’s introduced in alpha behind the `DeploymentPodReplacementPolicy` and `DeploymentReplicaSetTerminatingReplicas` feature gates in the API server and the kube-controller-manager.

Author: Addressed here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/51651#discussion_r2228984301

> ### `kubelet` observability gets a major boost with production-ready tracing

Author: @graz-dev can you suggest a change here?

> * `TerminationComplete`: Waits until old pods fully terminate before creating new ones, resulting in slower rollouts, and a more controlled resource consumption.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* `TerminationComplete`: Waits until old pods fully terminate before creating new ones, resulting in slower rollouts and a more controlled resource consumption.
```

> This feature provides greater control, and makes deployment behavior more predictable, especially when working in clusters with tight resource constraints or with workloads with long termination periods. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This feature provides greater control and makes deployment behavior more predictable, especially when working in clusters with tight resource constraints or with workloads with long termination periods. 
```

> To address the longstanding challenge of debugging node-level issues by correlating disconnected logs, the Kubelet OpenTelemetry Tracing enhancement ([KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831)) provides deep, contextual insights into the `kubelet`. It instruments the `kubelet`'s critical control loops and interfaces, most notably the gRPC calls made via the Container Runtime Interface (CRI). By generating and exporting distributed trace data using the vendor-agnostic OpenTelemetry standard, it fundamentally transforms node-level diagnostics from parsing disparate log files to analyzing a single, cohesive trace. This allows operators to visualize the entire lifecycle of critical operations like Pod startup, precisely pinpointing sources of latency and errors. Its most powerful aspect is the propagation of trace context; the `kubelet` passes a trace ID with its requests to the container runtime, enabling runtimes like containerd or CRI-O to link their own spans.  

Author: @graz-dev can you suggest a change here?

> To address the longstanding challenge of debugging node-level issues by correlating disconnected logs, the Kubelet OpenTelemetry Tracing enhancement ([KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831)) provides deep, contextual insights into the `kubelet`. It instruments the `kubelet`'s critical control loops and interfaces, most notably the gRPC calls made via the Container Runtime Interface (CRI). By generating and exporting distributed trace data using the vendor-agnostic OpenTelemetry standard, it fundamentally transforms node-level diagnostics from parsing disparate log files to analyzing a single, cohesive trace. This allows operators to visualize the entire lifecycle of critical operations like Pod startup, precisely pinpointing sources of latency and errors. Its most powerful aspect is the propagation of trace context; the `kubelet` passes a trace ID with its requests to the container runtime, enabling runtimes like containerd or CRI-O to link their own spans.  

Author: What about this? I tried to introduce the problem first, then the KEP
```suggestion
To address the longstanding challenge of debugging node-level issues by correlating disconnected logs, [KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831) provides deep, contextual insights into the `kubelet`. 

This feature instruments the `kubelet`'s critical operations, particularly its gRPC calls to the Container Runtime Interface (CRI), using the vendor-agnostic OpenTelemetry standard. It allows operators to visualize the entire lifecycle of events (for example: a Pod startup) to pinpoint sources of latency and errors. Its most powerful aspect is the propagation of trace context; the `kubelet` passes a trace ID with its requests to the container runtime, enabling runtimes to link their own spans. 
```

This effort is complemented by a parallel enhancement, [KEP-647](https://kep.k8s.io/647), which brings the same tracing capabilities to the Kubernetes API server. Together, these enhancements provide a more unified, end-to-end view of events, simplifying the process of pinpointing latency and errors from the control plane down to the node. These features have matured through the official Kubernetes release process. [KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831) was introduced as an alpha feature in v1.25, while [KEP-647](https://kep.k8s.io/647) debuted as alpha in v1.22. Both enhancements were promoted to beta together in the v1.27 release. Looking forward, Kubelet Tracing ([KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831)) is now targeting graduation to a stable in the upcoming v1.34 release.

### PreferSameZone and PreferSameNode Traffic Distribution for Services

> The `spec.trafficDistribution` field within a Kubernetes Service allows users to express preferences for how traffic should be routed to Service endpoints.  

Author: ```suggestion
The `spec.trafficDistribution` field within a Kubernetes [Service](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) allows users to express preferences for how traffic should be routed to Service endpoints.  
```

To address the longstanding challenge of debugging node-level issues by correlating disconnected logs, the Kubelet OpenTelemetry Tracing enhancement ([KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831)) provides deep, contextual insights into the `kubelet`. It instruments the `kubelet`'s critical control loops and interfaces, most notably the gRPC calls made via the Container Runtime Interface (CRI). By generating and exporting distributed trace data using the vendor-agnostic OpenTelemetry standard, it fundamentally transforms node-level diagnostics from parsing disparate log files to analyzing a single, cohesive trace. This allows operators to visualize the entire lifecycle of critical operations like Pod startup, precisely pinpointing sources of latency and errors. Its most powerful aspect is the propagation of trace context; the `kubelet` passes a trace ID with its requests to the container runtime, enabling runtimes like containerd or CRI-O to link their own spans.  

> This effort is complemented by a parallel enhancement, [KEP-647](https://kep.k8s.io/647), which brings the same tracing capabilities to the Kubernetes API server. Together, these enhancements provide a more unified, end-to-end view of events, simplifying the process of pinpointing latency and errors from the control plane down to the node. These features have matured through the official Kubernetes release process. [KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831) was introduced as an alpha feature in v1.25, while [KEP-647](https://kep.k8s.io/647) debuted as alpha in v1.22. Both enhancements were promoted to beta together in the v1.27 release. Looking forward, Kubelet Tracing ([KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831)) is now targeting graduation to a stable in the upcoming v1.34 release.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This effort is complemented by a parallel enhancement, [KEP-647](https://kep.k8s.io/647), which brings the same tracing capabilities to the Kubernetes API server. Together, these enhancements provide a more unified, end-to-end view of events, simplifying the process of pinpointing latency and errors from the control plane down to the node. These features have matured through the official Kubernetes release process. [KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831) was introduced as an alpha feature in v1.25, while [KEP-647](https://kep.k8s.io/647) debuted as alpha in v1.22. Both enhancements were promoted to beta together in the v1.27 release. Looking forward, Kubelet Tracing ([KEP-2831](https://kep.k8s.io/2831)) is now targeting graduation to stable in the upcoming v1.34 release.
```

> ### `kubectl` supports KYAML as an output format

Reviewer 3: For transparency - this may miss 1.34.  It is waiting for review from very contended reviewers and it is (correctly) not the top of their list.

> ### `kubectl` supports KYAML as an output format

Reviewer 8: ok, we could delete this sentence.

> [KEP-5295](https://kep.k8s.io/5295) introduces KYAML, a safer and less ambiguous YAML subset and encoding, designed specifically for Kubernetes. KYAML addresses the shortcomings of both YAML and JSON. YAML's significant whitespace requires careful attention to indentation and nesting, while its optional string-quoting can lead to unexpected type coercion. Meanwhile, JSON lacks comment support and has strict requirements for trailing commas and quoted keys.  

Reviewer 2: Talk about what KYAML is before we tell people the KEP ID. Then explain the motivation.

> [KEP-5295](https://kep.k8s.io/5295) introduces KYAML, a safer and less ambiguous YAML subset and encoding, designed specifically for Kubernetes. KYAML addresses the shortcomings of both YAML and JSON. YAML's significant whitespace requires careful attention to indentation and nesting, while its optional string-quoting can lead to unexpected type coercion. Meanwhile, JSON lacks comment support and has strict requirements for trailing commas and quoted keys.  

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
KYAML is a safer and less ambiguous YAML subset and encoding, designed specifically for Kubernetes. [KEP-5295](https://kep.k8s.io/5295) introduces KYAML and in Kuberenetes 1.34 kubectl supports KYAML as an output.  KYAML addresses the shortcomings of both YAML and JSON. YAML's significant whitespace requires careful attention to indentation and nesting, while its optional string-quoting can lead to unexpected type coercion. Meanwhile, JSON lacks comment support and has strict requirements for trailing commas and quoted keys.  
```

Reviewer 8: @lmktfy how does this look ?

Reviewer 2: It looks&hellip; opinionated. Let's try to say / imply that we think some people will like it (and that anyone who doesn't is free not to use it).

> [KEP-5295](https://kep.k8s.io/5295) introduces KYAML, a safer and less ambiguous YAML subset and encoding, designed specifically for Kubernetes. KYAML addresses the shortcomings of both YAML and JSON. YAML's significant whitespace requires careful attention to indentation and nesting, while its optional string-quoting can lead to unexpected type coercion. Meanwhile, JSON lacks comment support and has strict requirements for trailing commas and quoted keys.  

Reviewer 3: "some of the shortcomings" -- this is contentious. :)

Reviewer 9: I see that now "some" has been removed. 

I think Tim is talking about mentioning the specific shortcomings rather than saying "some" in this context. There may be more shortcomings (again, debatable) of yaml that is not being addressed by kyaml. While we can not mention all the details in the blog, ["The Norway Bug"](https://hitchdev.com/strictyaml/why/implicit-typing-removed/) is worth mentioning. 

`
YAML's significant whitespace requires careful attention to indentation and nesting, while its optional string-quoting can lead to unexpected type coercion (for e.g.:  ["The Norway Bug"](https://hitchdev.com/strictyaml/why/implicit-typing-removed/))
`

KYAML addresses the problems by:

* Always double-quoting value strings   
* Leaving keys unquoted unless they are potentially ambiguous  
* Always using {} for structs and maps  
* Always using [] for lists

This might sound a lot like JSON, because it is! But unlike JSON, KYAML:

* Supports comments  
* Allows trailing commas in lists and maps for improved usability.  
* Does not require quoted keys.

> In Kubernetes v1.34, KYAML will be introduced as a new output format for `kubectl` (as in `kubectl get -o kayml ...`). KYAML is and will remain a strict subset of YAML, ensuring that any compliant YAML parser can parse KYAML documents.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.34, you can use KYAML for manifests and in Helm charts and request KYAML output from`kubectl` (as in `kubectl get -o kayml ...`). KYAML is and will remain a strict subset of YAML, ensuring that any compliant YAML parser can parse KYAML documents.
```

Reviewer 8: @lmktfy @thockin Please let me know if the above is the correct understanding. Also, given @thockin mentioned the delivery timeline, what information is appropriate to disclose here?

Reviewer 9: Yes, KYAML is supposed to work with all yaml parsers (unless there is a bug in the encoder - which would be subsequently fixed)

> In Kubernetes v1.34, KYAML will be introduced as a new output format for `kubectl` (as in `kubectl get -o kayml ...`). KYAML is and will remain a strict subset of YAML, ensuring that any compliant YAML parser can parse KYAML documents.

Reviewer 3: typo: kaymal -> kyaml

Reviewer 5: This typo issue also presented in KEP 5295 here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/5451#pullrequestreview-3035724845

> KYAML addresses specific challenges with both YAML and JSON. YAML's significant whitespace requires careful attention to indentation and nesting, while its optional string-quoting can lead to unexpected type coercion (for e.g.: ["The Norway Bug"](https://hitchdev.com/strictyaml/why/implicit-typing-removed/)). Meanwhile, JSON lacks comment support and has strict requirements for trailing commas and quoted keys.  

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
KYAML addresses specific challenges with both YAML and JSON. YAML's significant whitespace requires careful attention to indentation and nesting, while its optional string-quoting can lead to unexpected type coercion (for example: ["The Norway Bug"](https://hitchdev.com/strictyaml/why/implicit-typing-removed/)). Meanwhile, JSON lacks comment support and has strict requirements for trailing commas and quoted keys.  
```

> [KEP-5295](https://kep.k8s.io/5295) introduces KYAML, which addresses the problems by:

Author: fyi @lmktfy, to address https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/51651#discussion_r2226153074
```suggestion
[KEP-5295](https://kep.k8s.io/5295) introduces KYAML, which tries to address the most significant problems by:
```

* Always using [] for lists

This might sound a lot like JSON, because it is! But unlike JSON, KYAML supports comments, allows trailing commas, and doesn't require quoted keys.

> KYAML is targeting alpha in Kubernetes v1.34. Since KYAML is and will remain a strict subset of YAML, any compliant YAML parser can process KYAML documents.

Author: fyi @lmktfy, to address https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/51651#discussion_r2226156270
```suggestion
We're hoping to see KYAML introduced as a new output format for `kubectl` v1.34.
As with all these features, none of these changes are 100% confirmed; watch this space!

As a format, KYAML is and will remain a **strict subset of YAML**, ensuring that any compliant YAML parser can parse KYAML documents.
```

## Want to know more?

> New features and deprecations are also announced in the Kubernetes release notes. We will formally announce what's new in [Kubernetes v1.34](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.34.md) as part of the CHANGELOG for that release.

Author: Looks like we’ve been using this template since [v1.31](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2024/07/19/kubernetes-1-31-upcoming-changes/#want-to-know-more). @Vyom-Yadav @rytswd what’s your opinion on this?

> New features and deprecations are also announced in the Kubernetes release notes. We will formally announce what's new in [Kubernetes v1.34](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.34.md) as part of the CHANGELOG for that release.

Reviewer 9: I think it's fine to link to the changelog. The docs team periodically update the changelog to reflect the changes made since the last release cut (it's on alpha.3 right now and beta.0 is in review).

Kubernetes v1.34 release is planned for **Wednesday 27th August 2025**. Stay tuned for updates!

> You can also see the announcements of changes in the release notes for:

Author: Same as [above](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/51651/files#r2217953804). cc @Vyom-Yadav @rytswd

* [Kubernetes v1.32](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.32.md)
* [Kubernetes v1.31](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.31.md)

## Get involved
The simplest way to get involved with Kubernetes is by joining one of the many [Special Interest Groups](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-list.md) (SIGs) that align with your interests. Have something you’d like to broadcast to the Kubernetes community? Share your voice at our weekly [community meeting](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/communication), and through the channels below. Thank you for your continued feedback and support.

* Follow us on Bluesky [@kubernetes.io](https://bsky.app/profile/kubernetes.io) for the latest updates
* Join the community discussion on [Discuss](https://discuss.kubernetes.io/)
* Join the community on [Slack](http://slack.k8s.io/)
* Post questions (or answer questions) on [Server Fault](https://serverfault.com/questions/tagged/kubernetes) or [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/kubernetes)

> * Share your Kubernetes [story](https://docs.google.com/a/linuxfoundation.org/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScuI7Ye3VQHQTwBASrgkjQDSS5TP0g3AXfFhwSM9YpHgxRKFA/viewform)

Author: Vyom did reach out about getting a shorter link but we haven’t heard back yet, so let’s proceed with this one for now and I can update it later if we get one
